Alright stand ups, so what's a stand up?
It is a quick, informal discussion with a small team or group,
some may call it a morning role call or even a daily scrum.
Its purpose is to get real time feedback from the team,
to bring up any issues early in order to avoid bigger problems downstream,
and to get a pulse or a feeling of the health of the team.
Its benefits are many.
I believe this creates synergy, improved teamwork,
and ensures a focus on the right things are getting done for that day.
Now let's talk about Michael's standup 3 P's.
Basically for the stand ups you're just going to be,
well, standing up, and maybe it's over by a white board,
it could even be in a conference room,
but I prefer not because I don't want people sitting down.
Alright so for Michael's 3 P's, it's Progress, Plans, and Problems.
The first, progress.
So you go around the room,
maybe one day start from the left and one day start from the right,
make it random,
and the person would say - hey this is what I've done since we last met,
which might be the day before, and they just talk about what they've done,
what is their progress.
And next the same person would say - here are my plans,
here are the things I'm going to do today.
And everyone listens and they might have a few questions.
If the questions are big or complex, you will take them off line,
maybe with a follow up meeting.
But they're here to discuss what they've done,
what they're going to do and seeing if there's any issues that
you may have or other team members might have.
And the third P is problems.
We want to bring issues and obstacles up,
what are the blockers that I've encountered?
Hey I'm stuck on this SQL proc and I need help trying to fix it.
Oh, hey okay Joe,
why don't you jump in and help him when we're done with the meeting.
You really want to get the problems out too,
that's really important because problems are typically blockers,
they're things that are slowing up the work and you want to
prevent anything from slowing up the work.
Next though, of course, is logistics.
Like what's the frequency?
Well maybe every day, maybe every other day,
and maybe it's by project, by team, you can decide that.
The duration, I like to keep them pretty quick,
you know, 5 to 10 minutes tops if possible.
Location, again, kind of a quiet area, you don't want to disrupt other people,
maybe over by a whiteboard or maybe in a conference room
or maybe over in your office even, something like that.
And who goes first.
Of course, I like to make it random, don't always pick the same person.
You might even go first for yourself.
Now when everyone breaks up and goes back to their work area,
I think they feel more connected,
they feel they know what they're purpose is for the day,
and what they have to do.
They know the priorities of what they are doing and they know
about a couple of problems or blockers that they might need to
solve or help others to solve. To me this is gold.